+++
date = "2017-09-21T15:32:34-04:00"
draft = false
title = "PA 2"
description = "JMU Duke E-Hall Feedback"
+++

# PA2: JMU Duke E-Hall Feedback
# 3-Station Survey

# Honor Code

This assignment should be completed individually to maximize learning. It is important that you adhere to the Course Policies explained in detail at https://w3.cs.jmu.edu/cs149/coursepolicies/ listed under the section on Programming Assignments. Also relevant is the [JMU Honor Code](http://www.jmu.edu/honorcode/code.shtml).

# Objectives

* Write `if` statements to make decisions in a program.
* Check validity of input values in a program.
* Use constants for readability and maintainability
* Use relational and logical operators in expressions.
* Format numerical data to fixed precision for display.
* Use the command line to test program correctness.

# Introduction

After the success of the new BMR Calculator program, dining services wants to do a short survey to evaluate three different eating stations in E-Hall and have asked our class to write the program again. This one is a bit trickier. They want to get basic feedback on three different stations: Vegan, Pasta, and Waffle. The Vegan Station is the one they want to find out the most about. (There is a controversy in the kitchen about how spicy some of the options should be and whether or not the line moves fast enough.) Each station will be rated on a scale from 1-10 and then have follow up responses based on that rating. At the end of the survey a summary will be displayed that contains a rating of the customer's overall responses (with a “discerning” or “well-fed” determination), a list of the ratings and an average of the ratings.

Details on how each of the questions must be formatted and how responses must be handled are listed below. Note that in this assignment you will need to validate the inputs to the rating questions.

Before implementing your program in Java, make sure that you understand the problem and that you can write an algorithm for solving it (in English or pseudo-code).

You can get a general idea of how the program must operate by reviewing the <code class="rbio-input">input</code> and <code class="rbio-output">output</code> listed in each section below. Your final implementation must be in a file named `Survey.java`. In addition to the block comments required by the style guide, your implementation must include concise inline comments (using `//`) for each major section of the assignment described below (e.g., gathering input, doing calculations, displaying output). You should have these comments in place before writing any code! These comments must correlate to statements in the algorithm.

# Constants

Your program must declare, initialize, and make appropriate use of several constants.

The constants related to ratings are: `WORST` (1), `POOR` (2), `FAIR` (4), `GOOD` (6), `VERY_GOOD` (8), and `BEST` (10).

The constants related to improvements are: `HOPELESS` (1), `FASTER_SERVICE` (2), and `SPICIER_FOOD` (3).

The constants related to diet choice are: `VEGAN` (0), `VEGETARIAN` (2), or `NEITHER` (3).

# Title and Determining Diet Choice

Your program should display the title of the survey, `JMU DUKE E-HALL FEEDBACK SURVEY`, and then read in and validate the diet choice is one of the displayed options.

1. Display the title, all in capital letters, left justified.
2. Display the 2- line prompt for the Diet Choice.
3. Read in the Diet Choice.
4. Validate that the Diet Choice is one of `VEGAN`, `VEGETARIAN`, or `NEITHER`. If not set it to `NEITHER`.
5. Display a tab followed by the Diet Choice.

An example after the user has chosen Vegan:

<code class="rbio-output">
    JMU DUKE E-HALL FEEDBACK SURVEY<br>
    Make your diet choice.<br>
    Are you Vegan(0), Vegetarian(2), or Neither (3)?
<code class="rbio-input">2</code><br>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;You chose Vegan.
</code>

# Survey Vegan Station

Your program must read in the rating for each station and validate that it is a reasonable rating. If the rating is not within the specified range of 1-10, then your program must set the rating equal to the `FAIR` rating value.

<code class="rbio-output">
    Rate the Vegan Station on a scale of 1-10. <code class="rbio-input">3</code><br>
    &#160;&#160;&#160;Sorry the Vegan Station isn't FAIR!<br>
    &#160;&#160;&#160;What can we do to improve?<br>
    &#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;1) Nothing it is hopeless.<br>
    &#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;2) Faster service.<br>
    &#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;3) Spicier food.<br>
    <code class="rbio-input">3</code><br>
    &#160;&#160;&#160;We will add salsa.
</code>

1. Display the prompt for the Vegan Station rating.
2. Read in the Vegan Station rating.
3. Validate that the Vegan Station rating is between `WORST` and `BEST`. If not set it to `FAIR`.
4. If the rating is below `FAIR`, ask what can be done to improve giving three options on separate lines. Note that each prompt after the initial rating must start with a tab character to show it is a subsection of the Vegan Rating. The three prompts of options must start with an additional tab character to show they are options for answering the question above. Each option must be on a separate line.
    1. Validate that the improvement response is valid. If it is not, set the improvement response to `HOPELESS`.
    2. If the response is `SPICIER_FOOD` and the user is `NEITHER` (i.e. neither vegan nor vegetarian) display a tab character followed by:
    <p><code class="rbio-output">Try the Pasta Station.</code></p>
    3. If the response is `SPICIER_FOOD` and the user is `VEGAN` or `VEGETARIAN` display a tab character followed by:
    <p><code class="rbio-output">We will add salsa.</code></p>
    4. If the response is `FASTER_SERVICE` display a tab character followed by:
    <p><code class="rbio-output">We will move faster!</code></p>
    5.  If the response is `HOPELESS` display a tab character followed by:
    <p><code class="rbio-output">Well, we will try harder anyway!</code></p>
5. If the rating is `FAIR` or above display a tab character followed by:
<p><code class="rbio-output">Glad you are satisfied.</code></p>

# Survey Pasta Station

Next your code should survey the pasta station. If the rating is not within the specified range of 1-10, then your program must set the rating equal to the FAIR rating value.

<code class="rbio-output">
Rate the Pasta Station on a scale of 1-10.<code class="rbio-input"> 4</code><br>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;Sorry you disliked the Pasta Station.
</code>

1. Display the prompt for the Pasta Station rating.
2. Read in the Pasta Station rating.
3. Validate the Pasta Station rating. If it is not valid, set it to FAIR.
4.  Depending on the rating display a tab character followed by one of the following:
    * Rating 0-2: <code class="rbio-output">Sorry you hated the Pasta Station.</code>
    * Rating 3-4: <code class="rbio-output">Sorry you disliked the Pasta Station.</code>
    * Rating 5-6: <code class="rbio-output">Mediocre Pasta Station, mediocre rating.</code>
    * Rating 7-8: <code class="rbio-output">The Pasta Station passed the test.</code>
    * Rating 9-10: <code class="rbio-output">Success! The Pasta Station is a winner!</code>

# Survey Waffle Station

Next your code should survey the pasta station. If the rating is not within the specified range of 1-10, then your program must set the rating equal to the FAIR rating value.

<code class="rbio-output">
Rate the Waffle Station on a scale of 1-10. <code class="rbio-input">10</code><br>
&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;YES, WAFFLES ARE WONDERFUL!
</code>

1. Display the prompt for the Waffle Station rating.
2. Read in the Waffle Station rating.
3. Validate the Waffle Station rating. If it is not valid, set it to FAIR.
4. If the Waffle Station Rating is BEST, display a tab character followed by the following:
<code class="rbio-output">&#160;&#160;&#160;&#160;YES, WAFFLES ARE WONDERFUL!</code><br>
otherwise print a blank line and go on to the summary below.

# Summarize Results

1. Display a summary of the ratings for the three stations. For example:
<code class="rbio-output">
You rated each station as follows:<br>
Vegan Station&#160;&#160;&#160;3<br>
Pasta Station&#160;&#160;&#160;4<br>
Waffle Station&#160;10
</code><br>
Note that the name of the station must be left-justified in a field of width 15 and the rating must be right-justified in a field of width 2.
3. If all of the ratings are below `FAIR`, display the following (on its own line):
<code class="rbio-output">You are a discerning eater.</code>
4. If any of the ratings are `VERY_GOOD` or above, display the following (on its own line):
<code class="rbio-output">You should be well-fed.</code>
5. Compute the average rating.
6. Display the average rating as follows:<br>
<code class="rbio-output">
The average of your ratings is: 5.67.
</code><br>
Note that the average must be right-justified in a field of width 5 with two places to the right of the decimal point.

# Submission

Submission for this assignment is divided into two parts that should be completed in order.

__PA2-A: Readiness Quiz: due Monday, 9 / 25 11:00 pm__

To complete Part A you should first carefully read the project specification. Once you feel confident that you have a good grasp of the project requirements, log into Canvas and complete the Part A readiness quiz. YOU MUST ANSWER ALL QUESTIONS CORRECTLY (earn 100%) TO GET ANY CREDIT FOR THIS PART. You may take the quiz as many times as necessary but if you do not complete it on time, you will receive zero credit.

__PA2-B: Java Implementation: due Friday, 9 / 29 11:00 pm__

A [Web-CAT](https://webcat.cs.jmu.edu) file submission.

* -25% before Saturday, 9 / 30 11:00 pm
* -50% before Sunday, 10 / 01 11:00 pm
* __Not accepted after Sunday, 11:00 pm__

Your implementation must be in a file named `Survey.java`. Before submitting your code to Web-CAT, make sure you:

Verify that your code is correct. You should test it with several of your own tests, but included here is a zip file with a series of corresponding input and output tests <a href="/cs149/files/pa2tests.zip" download>pa2tests.zip</a> to give you a verified command-line test suite. _Note if your output is not exactly like the output in `paXtest.exp` when run on `paXtest.in` for every test X, then your code is not correct._

Verify that all of your variables and constants are declared and initialized in a way that is consistent with the course style guide.

Verify (using Checkstyle) that your code does not contain any other style errors or warnings.

# Grading

Your submissions will be graded according to the following criteria. Note that though there is no explicit category for Instructor grading based on style and code quality, individual points may be deducted in each category by the instructor for these types of issues. ___Also .java files that do not compile will result in a grade of zero for Part B.___

<table>
    <tr>
        <td>PA2-A: Readiness Quiz</td><td>10%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>PA2-B: Checkstyle</td><td>10%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>PA2-B: Correct output for valid input (decisions correct)</td><td>20%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>PA2-B: Correctly formatted and accurate numerical output</td><td>20%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>PA2-B: Input values correctly validated</td><td>20%</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>PA2-B: Correctly identified relational summary values </td><td>20%</td>
    </tr>
</table>
